hey everyone all around this watered
world Laszlo Montgomery again with the
94th episode the China history podcast
we're gonna finish off this whole
junghwa overview and take a look at
Gavin Menzies contribution at the
historical discourse about this time
early 15th century late Middle Ages -
pre European Renaissance now I have to
admit before wading into the world of
Gavin Menzies I had no idea who he was
or about the details he espouses in his
two books I believed they had something
to do with juncos fleets discovering
America or something like that
truthfully though I passed these books
in a hundred airports and book stores
around the u.s. and Asia I knew there
was one called 1421 the year China
discovered the world or discovered
America and a sequel that came out later
called 14:34 the era magnificent Chinese
fleet sailed to Italy and ignited the
Renaissance for whatever reason it
didn't quite piqued my interest enough
or intrigued me enough to buy them I
knew nothing about any controversy over
his findings when I began thinking about
doing a series on jung-hwa I figured why
not go and read Gavin Menzies two books
and then bring them into the story so
last Hong Kong trip I picked them up and
did a thorough skim job of both many of
you have perhaps already read 1421 and
1434 the evidence presented is very very
compelling and besides all that the
story of the whole period has also
presented it in a fine way I must add
both volumes remain staples at any
International Airport newsstand or
bookshop 1421 came out in 2002 and Gavin
Menzies followed up in 2008 with 1434 I
checked out everything I could find on
Gavin Menzies and what his side of the
story was and what his detractors said
this guy has had everything and
everything thrown at him I read his book
as well I was convinced if all he said
was true nuff said I was on board he had
me
Columbus didn't discover America and the
same could be said about cook in
Australia then I started checking around
and listening to what all the naysayers
said and then suddenly I wasn't so sure
anymore what seemed factual became
arguable in fact one of mr. Menzies
principal detractors someone named
captain PJ rivers captain rivers name
was followed by six acronyms for a bunch
of things and punctuated at the end with
the words master mariner so I figured he
must know something about the sea he
runs a website called www 1421 exposed
com she could figure out right away what
he thinks of the book he called Gavin
Menzies a modern Mandeville referring to
the 14th century legend Sir John
Mandeville who wrote an eponymous book
of his four years of travel beginning in
1357 no way to tell if it was real or
not but the book was wildly popular in
its day and the stories are entertaining
and highly unbelievable he goes on to
say about Menzies that he tells of his
own life in a walter mitty manor with a
touch of Munchausen referring to the
famous travelling baron immortalized by
terry gilliam in his 1988 film he
finishes off saying quote this
entertaining amateur detective novel
masquerading as revisionist history may
well prove to be the Piltdown man of
literature but should only be classified
as fiction Piltdown man you all know
from early man fossils discovered in
Piltdown West Sussex these bones and the
claims they made were in November 1953
exposed as a fraud after 40 years Wow
strong words captain rivers there's
quite a cacophony out there pointing
fingers at this inaccuracy in that
supposition and the authenticity of
these maps or mr. Menzies interpretation
of these maps and what certain things
Manta knew there's multiple cracks in
the foundation that Gavin Menzies rests
his case I would not discourage anyone
from buying the books if for nothing
else the books offer a nice easy to read
history of the early ming dynasty if
you're interested in navigation and how
the ancient mariners used to do it
before longitude was figured out it's
fascinating on that level too and mr.
Menzies is delightfully quite expert in
all manners of astronavigation if you're
just plain old in love with the ideas of
sailing the seven seas it's a great read
for you to you know revisionism is such
a dirty word and so many cultures and
civilizations but you know how it is
history is always written by the victors
or at least it used to be and certainly
was in the times of jung-ho in the early
Ming in 1480 when Confucian as' burned
all traces of juncos logbooks records
and maps they destroyed the hope that
later generations might know the truth
about what happened in doing this they
may have not only denied junga his
rightful place in history but also
denied China an additional boost to
their overall world stature that's the
most frustrating thing about this whole
story there are all these signs that
junghwa's voyages were bigger than we
know but despite all the claims of where
he went what he did at the end of the
day these records have not surfaced and
perhaps never will Gavin Menzies or no
Gavin Menzies the Chinese and juncos day
certainly had the wherewithal to
discover the remaining parts of the
world that you know had been unseen by
visitors from far away whether they did
or not remains debatable but even
hampered by not knowing how to calculate
longitude the Chinese could have done
everything Menzies claims there's just
no hard core undeniable evidence that
they did so after something becomes the
accepted version based on the combined
research of an army of historians
anthropologists scientists and
archaeologists all over the world people
take it seriously when out of nowhere
something of this magnitude like Gavin
Menzies writes about you know comes to
the fore
if
what this book purports to say is all
true that is a game-changer in all
respects as far as you know how we look
at those years of exploration in the
latter half of the 15th century and into
the 16th and rather than celebrating
Columbus as the discoverer of the new
world and declaring holidays in his
honor
we should be celebrating chunga instead
in China based on this achievement might
stand even taller in their shoes than
they do now if Columbus Magellan and de
Gama were standing on the shoulders of
giants
then everyone ought to know about this
as for me I read the books or at least
skim them took notes all sounds
plausible but the voices picking apart
his theses are simply too loud and too
strong
you know what has served me well for all
of my life up to this point is the old
Chinese saying
Sandrine Chung who if three people all
say they saw a tiger then it's true if
only two people said they saw a tiger
well you know what should one think
these these two could be in cahoots who
knows but if three unrelated parties all
said the same thing well must be real
well that's an oversimplification but
that's how I feel about this whole thing
it's just not real enough and the buzz
never rose to the level where you know
it became serious to come out and say
Columbus discovered America based on
maps that were written by juncos
mapmakers long before 1492 well that's
quite a claim for something that big
there had better be some rock-solid
evidence and the evidence better be
backed up by the academic and scientific
establishment so I haven't heard a loud
enough roar to sit up and take notice
and hop on this bandwagon when I hear
something that's a little more
convincing and conclusive and maybe
front page headlines then I'm there I
just don't see any groundswell
whatsoever saying anything different
than the established order of things and
that is John Cazale
never sailed past the Cape of Good
it ended there or at least on the East
African coast nonetheless it's a great
story
and Gavin Menzies I watched this History
Channel or Discovery Program I'm not
sure right and I couldn't help but to
notice over and over he's a dead ringer
for Dick Cheney glasses and all I put
side by side photos of them on my
website one thing's for sure mr. Menzies
sure has done well creating his own
little industry and promoting himself
anyways time will tell if the
conclusions raised in his books are
indeed the Piltdown man of literature as
one of his detractors says 1421 was the
year of the sixth voyage the final
voyage of the Yola Emperor's reign all
his luck was about to run out the
emperor would pass from the scene in
1424 after a series of bruising and
calamitous setbacks according to the
official version of events the fleet set
sail in March of 1421 right after the
new Forbidden City was opened in Beijing
then going as far as the Swahili coast
and then they returned to China a little
more than three years later in 1424 the
young emperor was dead and his son now
the Hong Shi Emperor had sent out the
call that all ships had to return to
China at once after such a spectacular
voyage think they'd at least get a
hero's welcome but the mood now in
Beijing after the excesses of Judy the
Yellow Emperor no one was in the mood to
talk about these fleets and the
exorbitant cost build the Forbidden City
that only stood for a short while before
being struck by lightning and burned to
the ground Gavin Menzies version of
events is that after they finished in
Africa they split up and went on to sail
to North and South America Australia and
the polar extremes in the Arctic and
Antarctic after the fleet resupplied at
their base in Malacca they sailed up the
strait to some Adara and there according
to Gavin Menzies they split up for
eunuch admirals led
the fourth fleets home bow Jomon Jolin
and yang Ching there was also a smaller
fleet that was commanded by junga junga
took care of you know sending all the
envoys back home and then he himself
headed back to China
arriving in November 14 21 as for the
three Admirals they finished up whatever
business they had and all rendezvous off
the coast of Mozambique and so follow
and headed south towards the Cape of
Good Hope and the southern Atlantic
Ocean there the winds and currents would
take them up the west coast of Africa to
the Cape Verde Islands and then they'd
travel west using the same currents that
would carry Columbus some 70 years later
there Menzies says the Admiral split up
the fleet
Jowan sailed north passing through the
Caribbean and up the coast of the USA
home Paul and Jomon went south sailing
down the east coast of South America
past Brazil and Argentina to the
Falkland Islands and then on to
Patagonia Admiral Hong Bao from there
sailed on to Antarctica and Australia on
the way no small feat he discovers the
Strait of Magellan before the man
himself did in 1520 furthermore we are
led to believe that when Magellan sailed
through the Strait he already had a map
that came from the Chinese that allowed
him to safely navigate that notorious
rough spot in the oceans and mr. Menzies
scatters all kinds of interesting things
throughout his books such as claims that
Spanish ships later on in the 16th
century would come upon Chinese wrecks
off the Chilean coast and elsewhere and
that a multitude of animals and foods
were brought to these faraway places
that brought revolutionary changes for
the better
- all these beneficiaries in North and
South America Australia and Africa so
home ball makes it through the stray
hangs of lui sailed west of Tierra del
Fuego past the Shetland Islands and
south towards the Antarctic Circle and
there in 1422 cartographers and
surveyors aboard one of the vessels
charted the coast of a part of
Antarctica this made it onto the famous
piri reis map now located in the Topkapi
Museum in Istanbul
well Gavin Menzies vehemently says Perry
Rees got the info about Antarctica from
Chinese sources others have said that
chunk of land depicted in the map ain't
Antarctica so once again no sign wrench
uncle as far as I'm concerned from
Antarctica pompous fleet sailed north to
warmer climes to Australia they landed
at Bunbury south of Perth the Aboriginal
Australians supposedly carry stories to
this day of these yellow men who once
visited there they went north from Perth
into the familiar waters of the western
ocean and there they blended in with the
hundreds of other vessels involved in
the spice trade and after a long stop in
Malacca they headed home arriving back
in China October 22nd 14:23 now Coleman
was still sailing in the high seas as
Hong Bao was heading home Jomon after
surveying the west coast of South
America was crossing the Pacific and
zeroing in on the east coast of
Australia the fleet sailed three months
with the current that took a straight
shot across the Pacific and carried them
just north of present-day Sydney and
Gavin Menzies said the Chinese were
already familiar with Australia and had
been there before the visits by Jomon
and Hong Bao were merely follow-up
missions for more detailed charting of
the coast from Australia the sail to New
Zealand stopping on remote Campbell
Island first from there they sailed back
to the Australian coast past the Great
Barrier Reef and to the north of
Australia surveying you know everywhere
they went wherever these ships landed
there was a danger of getting
shipwrecked and Menzies has said many of
these vests
were wrecked all over the place Africa
North America Australia and these
Chinese sailors lived as castaways and
blended into the fabric of their new
homelands this is why at least Gavin
Menzies says there is plenty of Chinese
DNA mixed in with the genes of the local
inhabitants which can be classified as
quote recently acquired DNA but
geneticists don't know if recently
acquired memes 15th century or what like
everything about this book lots of smoke
no fire after Joe Mons fleet had done
their work in Australia and New Zealand
they sailed back home like home boughs
fleet they still had Chinese goods to
offload in the usual haunts in Indonesia
and Malaysia there they abandoned
temporarily their explorations and put
their traders hats back on the cargo
holds were then in turn loaded up with
spices and they headed back to China or
did they Coleman made a last-minute
decision after passing the Philippines
to keep going in a northeasterly
direction for four months 16,000 miles
Coleman's fleet sailed the winds and
currents of the Pacific that took them
to the coast of Canada in the United
States
Menzies mentions a bunch of Chinese
wrecks that were found they even sailed
into San Francisco Bay into San Pablo
Bay and up the Sacramento River where
the winds had blown them there many
Chinese got off and ended up staying and
setting up their own colony somewhere
near the russian river that runs through
picturesque Sonoma and Mendocino
counties who could blame them it's
gorgeous up there and Gavin Menzies
pointed out that by the 1870s 75% of the
farm laborers in that area were of
Chinese descent this Chinese colony from
Joel Mons fleet were the ones who
brought rice cultivation to California
today one of the biggest cash crops in
the state as well as all the blue and
white Maine porcelain that's you know
found in fragments all over the place
the porcelain had always been thought to
have come from you know later
visiting Spanish galleons from there the
current carried them along the
California coast they didn't stop in
Claremont they kept going passing the
Mexican coast where another Chinese
colony was established and where the
Chinese brought lacquer ware and textile
dyeing techniques to the locals there
then on to Central America and the
northwest of South America you know to
Colombia Peru and Ecuador then back to
China
arriving in Nanjing October 8th 14 23
that was a story of admirals home ball
and Jomon as for Jolin he sailed across
the Atlantic from the Azores again using
the same winds as Columbus reaching the
French Caribbean islands of Dominica and
Guadeloupe then from there he sailed on
to Puerto Rico and this is where Gavin
Menzies points to the Pitts igano map as
proof that these particular islands had
been visited by juncos fleets from
Puerto Rico the fleet sailed towards
Florida past the Bimini Islands and the
Bahamas where they ran aground and had
to make emergency repairs building the
mysterious underwater Bimini Road before
heading up the Florida coast
there they sailed north passing Cape
Canaveral where five and a half
centuries later a Saturn 5 rocket would
blast off into outer space and take
three American astronauts to the surface
of the Moon they went all the way up the
coast sailing it to New York Harbor a
century before Verrazano and then up to
Newport Rhode Island where a mysterious
lighthouse was built that still stands
today Gavin Menzies said there are 28 of
these lighthouses or observatories
scattered around the world where juncos
fleets had once made landfall now one of
the claims that Gavin Menzies makes and
he's extremely insistent about this is
that when Verrazano sailed into
Narragansett Bay in 1524 he saw locals
who were most deaf of Chinese descent
there were Chinese already living in
North America when Verrazano landed and
after all his theories were shot down
Menzies
always falls back to this one point if
junghwa's fleets never sailed to the New
World
how did all those Chinese get to the
Northeast u.s. in addition to this Gavin
Menzies also says that these sailors
from jolin's fleet had left behind
evidence of their presence all over
Massachusetts as crazy as this sounds
after the fleet finished exploring the
coast of the US
they sailed north through the frozen
Atlantic and split up one part
continuing north to the Arctic Circle
going around Greenland and then Iceland
and the other part of the fleet catching
the current that would take them in
about a month's time across the Atlantic
to the Azores and then on to the Cape
Verde Islands the remaining Admiral was
the grand eunuch yang Ching he didn't go
on as fantastical voyage as Jomon
joulwan and Hong Bao but it was a
memorable one nonetheless for on this
voyage yang Ching solved the mystery
that had confounded Mariners from the
time they first set sail onto the open
ocean how to figure out one's longitude
now this is quite a claim because
traditionally this great feat of mankind
was credited later to John Harrison and
his chronometer in the 1700s
well again no rock-solid evidence and
there are scholars in China who insist
Chinese sailors had not been able to
master this enigma before the Europeans
so a lot of claims are made none of the
minor or insignificant one of Gavin
Menzies signature claims in this book is
that the first European explorers to
visit the new world all carried maps
with them showing the way the source of
these maps were the cartographers and
surveyors aboard juncos fleets this
sixth voyage of juncos fleet
circumnavigated the world passed through
the Cape of Good Hope the Strait of
Magellan they visited the new world in
Australia the extreme northern and
southern regions of the globe and though
no evidence can be found that is
conclusive to a degree that all
scientists and historians can you know
generally agree a lot of stuff is out
there
that suggests some of what Menzies
claims might very well be true maybe it
didn't happen exactly like how he said
but let's just say some questions
remained unanswered there's a lot of
maps out there the pits igano the fra
mauro the 1428 map that dom pedro
brother of Prince Henry the Navigator
received in Venice that showed the
Pacific in North America that they're
all real all sort of maybe perhaps give
clues to junka but again nothing for
show the only thing that historians can
agree on for the most part is that the
only map that survives that can be
connected directly to chunka shows India
and Africa only if there was anything
that told the whole story
logs maps any surviving records they all
got trashed and burned as the legend
goes by someone within the Confucian
cabal at the imperial court who for
their own reasons did not want this
information getting out into the state
nothing has come forth no discovery and
some archeological excavation nothing
nada no missing log books of juncos
fleets discovered yet the case for
Junkers fleets discovering the world
rests on the idea that while Juncker was
in callicut he met up with a Venetian
adventurer and merchant named Nicolo de
Conti he was the first Italian merchants
to make it to China since the time of
Marco Polo and 1295 Tecate plays a
starring role in the accounts given by
Gavin Menzies like all these early
travelers and adventurers going all the
way back to chung chien during the Han
Dynasty de Conti story is amazing he
goes on these incredible voyages
travelling disguised as a Muslim trader
and he sees the most amazing sights that
the 15th century had to offer and in
1444 like Marco Polo 150 years before he
sails back to Venice writes a book about
his travels and lives happily ever after
as a rich merchant now according to
Menzies beyond the shadow of a doubt
and all historians can generally agree
on this point de Conti was traveling
around all the usual haunts of the early
15th century spice trade he most
certainly saw juncos treasure fleets or
at the very least heard of them but
Menzies goes a bit further he maintains
de Conti came on board one of their
vessels in Calicut and actually sailed
with them for three years on this
magical mystery tour all over the world
he definitely would have had time to
have read when de Conti reached Venice
he hooked up with Venetian cartographer
fra mauro of the monastery of st.
michael which no longer stands there is
today one of the largest cemeteries in
venice with all the information from de
Conti as well as other Venetian traders
who brought back bits and pieces of
information fra mauro creates the 1459
fra mauro map both this map as well as
the 1424 pits igano chart discovered in
1953 make up two of the primary sources
for the history Gavin Menzies presents
there's a lot of data a lot of maybes a
lot of could B's but as I said nothing
that absolutely positively backs up the
claims by Gavin Menzies in this book
1421 as for Menzies claim that Verrazano
Columbus and others ran into Chinese or
mixed Chinese when they landed in the
New World
these maps carried by the great
explorers who sailed after junka that
show things that weren't discovered yet
that shall remain a mystery wrapped up
in a riddle inside an enigma as for the
other book 14:34 this one came out four
years ago and discusses juncos seventh
and final voyage this one you recall
came between 1430 and 14:33
made it all the way to Mombasa Kenya on
the Swahili coast but Gavin Menzies says
not so he introduces a Chinese Canadian
scholar who maintains that an astronomer
from Florence Paulo de Tuscan le had
sent to Christopher Columbus two letters
and a map
that essentially serves as the playbook
on how to take a shortcut to India by
crossing the Atlantic Tuscon Ellie
claims he got all this information from
a visiting Chinese envoy in Venice so
the deal with Gavin Menzies second book
and I won't dwell on it as much as the
more famous first effort is that Chinese
from Jung fleet sailed to Venice
Florence in the papal States and brought
all these maps all these works of
intellectual pursuits by Chinese
scientists and inventors and handed them
off to their counterparts there and you
guessed it this this veritable gold mine
of information brought to Europe by the
Chinese provided the spark that filled
in a lot of missing blanks that led to a
spike in the knowledge pool in southern
Europe now to do this the treasure fleet
of jung-ho rather than taking the long
way sailing around the Cape of Good Hope
they passed through a certain canal that
linked the Red Sea with the Nile River
like everything else associated with
Gavin Menzies books about Juncker you
can get a fixie aided by all the smoke
present but alas no fire not anywhere
just a bunch of conclusions made on
arguable data the existence of this red
sea Nile River canal strongly denied by
scientists lined up on the other side of
Gavin Menzies by the way Menzies
maintains that Juncker did not visit
Hormuz that Hormuz was a nothing place
back in that time and that where the
fleet actually went was to Cairo one of
the Muslim world's greatest centres of
learning not to mention a great center
for the trade and perfumes spices and
gold and it wasn't just that China
transferred all this knowledge to the
West it was the timing that mattered
Europe was now emerging from the dark
ages 1517 when Luther nailed his 95
theses on the door and Wittenberg isn't
too far away the whole of Europe is on
the cusp of great things when this
incredible volume of knowledge from the
Far East was
and delivered to Italian scholars and
officials so that's the main premise for
the second book that it was the
knowledge transferred from the Chinese
during the 7th voyage of junka that left
Nanjing January 1914 31 that grease the
skids that allowed the breakthrough that
led to the Italian Renaissance non-board
one of these vessels were all 50 million
characters of the young yen the young
LUN cyclopdia the greatest compendium
of human knowledge ever assembled to
date in this great work of which very
little survives to this day contained
the entirety of everything the Chinese
had figured out in the past 2,000 years
handing off the Yola encyclopedia to the
Venetians probably would have been all
that was necessary to light the rocket
underneath the European Renaissance
besides this juncos ambassadors brought
nautical charts maps and navigational
tools that allowed European scientists
naturalist and explorers to take a great
leap forward in their accumulation of
knowledge on this trip the matter of
figuring out longitude was perfected
remember it was Admiral yang Cheng who
made the initial studies and provided a
base to work from so Menzies maintains
unequivocally that juncos navigators
have been able to calculate latitude
within 30 miles and longitude to within
30 degrees armed with this kind of
knowledge what Columbus achieved was not
nearly as incredible as if he didn't
have him now this time it's Admiral home
ball who gets the orders from jang-ho
who is already at the end of his life
rather than dying in Calicut like I
mentioned last time Menzies suggests
that around 14 33 junka vanished and in
fact sailed on to North America and
settled somewhere in Asheville North
Carolina home of the Vanderbilt mansion
as far as igniting the Renaissance goes
the case rests on evidence discovered
that was written by Paolo Tosca Nellie
of Florence he was a contemporary of
Alberta and Brunelleschi and the Medicis
Tuscan Ali's letters
reveal that Chinese had visited the
Venetian Pope Eugene the fourth he gave
all kinds of details that Menzies seizes
on but these accounts are suspected to
have come from de Conti who may or may
not have made these journeys with juncos
fleet on the 76th voyage if you needed
an ideal representative to reveal 2,000
years of wisdom and knowledge to Tosca
Nelly would have been a great candidate
some educated man familiar with science
mathematics astronomy cosmology Sao
Paolo Tuscan le is another in a long
line of maybe maybe nuts a lot of these
drawings and descriptions of innovative
technologies was among the treasure
trove of supposedly seen by Tuscan le
Gavin Menzies says what followed in the
wake of these revelations from the
Chinese were the flood of fantastic
drawings from the likes of you know
Leonardo da Vinci and others who
received their inspiration for many of
their inventions from you know this
Chinese information there's a lot more
to it but that's the main idea behind
the book 1430 for the year a magnificent
Chinese fleet sailed to Italy and
ignited the Renaissance the title says
it all and like the first book 1421 it
makes all kinds of amazing discoveries
and draws very provocative conclusions
that seem based on real evidence and
like the first book 1421 it makes all
kinds of amazing discoveries and draws
very provocative conclusions that seem
based on real evidence nothing seems
implausible a Chinese science and
technology in the early main years was
indisputably the greatest in the world
there is nothing Gavin Menzies says nor
any conclusions drawn that could be
considered far-fetched there's no aliens
that visit the planet earth or
werewolves or vampires nothing like that
but did they do it it's a war out there
folks you get on any search engine and
put in the right keywords and there's
quite a dialogue going on right now you
have Gavin Menzies websites that contain
all the detail you'd ever want
see there are naysayers both amateur and
expert who have intelligently and
methodically picked apart everything
Menzies says and the usual chitchat back
and forth between the opposing sides of
this ongoing debate is always great
reading especially when it falls deep in
the gutter and you could see many people
around the world have these visceral
feelings about whether junka actually
achieved all that Gavin Menzies give
some credit for the emotion on both
sides those four and those against
what's contained in the two books 14 21
and 14 34 are lively and raucous this is
one of those things where you can do a
lot of amateur sleuthing and draw your
own conclusions there's no shortage of
materials that analyze everything about
everything junga did or didn't do
between 1405 and 14:33 but this we do
know jeong-ho was a real historic person
he made these voyages at least seven
that we know of he was a major mover and
shaker during the years of Judy the
Emperor EULA a period when unix-like
jeong-ho were most influential at court
and dominated court politics of the day
his voyages had a major ripple effect in
the creation of certain cities and towns
along the trade routes his life and his
legend are intertwined with the Chinese
culture in many of these places there
are temples built and reverence to him
many of the great and ancient cities
from Malacca to Mombasa have strong
vibrant overseas Chinese communities
whose roots go all the way back to the
time of these seven voyages like the
Silk Roads these voyages were also
conduits for the exchange of knowledge
and new ideas and I think it's with this
that we should thank Jung her home ba
yung Ching Jo man Jowan
Wong Jing Hong Maha Wong Fei Xin and
many others for their collective
contribution to the development of
mankind and taking part in a period when
so
much information was flowing back and
forth it's nearly impossible to tell who
knew what when or who got it from whom
maybe Gavin Menzies didn't get it right
maybe he did everything will be revealed
in time but whatever the case may be he
did shine a few bright lights on junka
and the other great Admirals of these
voyages and he allowed these great
historic personages through the massive
worldwide readership of these books and
the awareness they created to come out
and take a bow and to become known by
people around the world who might not
otherwise have heard of them so I guess
we could thank mr. Menzies for that so
let's bring this to an end there is a
lot to tell about this story over the
past three episodes all I did was
scratch the surface and offer up the
main points with this and anything you
hear on the China history podcasts if
anything piques your interest trust me
there are voluminous sources of further
info on every topic and these podcasts
have just given you the glazed caramel
topping on top of a rich cream brulee
underneath I'll give you the sugar but
if you want more there's plenty of
custard richness underneath waiting to
be explored so that's it the Olympics
ended the other day British people what
else can I say
except well done excellent not only
putting on a good show opening and
closing and in-between but winning all
those medals and allowing us American
skis here to meet all your stellar
athletes and maca and the who Wow long
live the special relationship this
Friday
all starts anew English football my club
Birmingham City will open against
Charlton Athletic here's to you blues
hoping you're into the Premiership next
year this time I'm not that I have
anything against championship league so
that's all I have to say about Masson
pas admiral jung hood next time we're
back with something new and exciting and
then Labor Day weekend we'll have mr.
Ray Harris jr. of the history of world
war two podcast live and
person here in good old Claremont it's
been white hot hair and Claremont the
past week and no relief in sight forties
day in and day out
that's Celsius my friends hopefully
things will cool down a little for Ray's
visit I guess that's it ladies and
gentlemen as it always seems to be this
is your humble narrator Laszlo
Montgomery wishing you all the very best
and I hope to see you next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast